# Rapprochement Bancaire Automatique| Automated Bank reconciliation
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/9ogmBfhdw1M?si=fdNpX-4u8aCl_8PV>
#### Description:
This program was designed to assist accountants with their bank reconciliation tasks, ensuring that bank statements are 100% identical to the enterprise's general ledger. The program takes two files, both in Excel format.  When the reconciliation button is pressed, the program will edit the excel files (removing extra spaces, adding day month year columns and line column and deleting the date column) then inserting the transactions into two sperate tables one called GL and the other is called BS. then the program will automatically reconcile transactions that are 100% identical in terms of date, description, amount, and position (debit or credit) respecting the reverse rule. The perfect transactions then are deleted from The main tables BS and GL and the inserted into a new table called PER. they were deleted from BS AND GL beecaus the contents of the table will be outputed to the user so he can reconcile the transactions that couldn't be reconcilled automatically.

(Note that if user does not provide 2 excel files or there was a problem with reading the files, the user will again be redirected to the homepage. )

After the automatic reconciliation, the program outputs the transactions that couldn't be reconciled automatically due to variances, allowing the user to reconcile accounts manually. The user can select the general ledger transactions and their equivalents in the bank statement transactions. The user can pick the type of discrepancy they found, such as problems in "montant" (amount), "date," or "libellé" (description). when user presses button of manual reconcillation, the transaction ids of manually reconcilled transactions and their associated discrepancies will be inserted into The MAN table (if problem exist then yes string will be inserrted into the appropriate problem's column), the structure of the table although long i thought was neccessary because these manually reconciled transactions will  be remove aswell from the BS and GL tables  so the user will see on the screen that these transactions were removed.

Additionally, a tool is provided to assist accountants: a search icon next to each transaction allows the user to search for equivalent transactions in the bank statements.
These transactions are highlighted based on their match rate: green for high match rates and yellow for possible matches.

For this feature a seperate table was made highlighting all the factors that will determine the correspondant transaction such as  day, month, year, the first word in the description, the rest of the description, and the amount. for factors such as year/month/day it was either 0 or 0.1 or 1  the 0.1 stands for there is a date but it's wrong although design wise this is probbaly not neccessary at all. for amounts i thought it was best to convert the amount to string and to use the Levenshtein Distance method to determine the match rate because accountant can insert omit or chnage a number of the amount of transaction that could be in the bginning or teh end of transaction so in this case just dedcuting numbers will not make sense.    the description was decomposed into two parts because as an accountant i know first word as a good weight on the probability of it being the corespondant transaction.   and a coefficient  was passed to these two to detemine the description match rate. the se pecentages were detrmined by looking at examples and determining an aproximation.

After we get all these rates. the final rate is calculated the rates found are multiplied by their coeficient. year was most important because it detemines if the transaction is the correspondant or not. after that the amount match rate was most important then the description rate month and then simulations were done to try to adjust these coefficients.

then after getting match rate. i determined the percentage of match that will assume the transaction was a high rate which will highligh the trnasaction for the user as green and the possible match as yellow. design wise. this approach had a good start. but could be improved at the end  by for example highlighting only the  5 highest match rate for user. instead of determining a general rate.


Once all possible transactions that could be reconcilled, have been reconciled, the user can press the "generate report" button at the top left. This will output a report detailing all manually reconciled transactions with their specific discrepancies, as well as transactions that were duplicates, omitted (the ones that the user didn't reconcile), and the automatically reconciled transactions at the beginning due to being a perfect match.
